Package:      lang/lisp/code/math/clmath/

Name:         CLMath

Summary:      Common Lisp library of mathematical functions.

Version:      1989

Description: 

   CLMath is a Lisp library of mathematical functions that calculate
   hyperbolic and inverse hyperbolic functions, Bessel functions,
   elliptic integrals, the gamma and beta functions, and the incomplete
   gamma and beta functions.  There are probability density functions,
   cumulative distributions, and random number generators for the normal,
   Poisson, chi-square, Student's T, and Snedecor's F functions. Discrete
   Fourier Transforms. Multiple linear regression, Fletcher-Powell
   unconstrained minimization, numerical integration, root finding,
   and convergence. Code to factor numbers and to do the
   Solovay-Strassen probabilistic prime test is included.

Requires:     

Ports:        

Origin:       ftp.ai.mit.edu:pub/clmath.tar
              
Copying:      Noncommercial use, distribution, and modification.

Updated:      

CD-ROM:       Prime Time Freeware for AI, Issue 1-1

Bug Reports:  

Mailing List: 

Author(s):    Gerald Roylance

Contact:      

Keywords:     

   Lisp!Math, Math, CLMath, Hyperbolic, Bessel, Elliptic Integrals, 
   Gamma Function,
   Beta Function, Probability, Random Number Generators, Fourier Transforms,
   Linear Regression, Fletcher-Powell Unconstrained Minimization,
   Numerical Integration, Root Finding, Integer Factorization, 
   Matrix Routines, 
   Solovay-Strassen Primality Testing, Prime Numbers, Authors!Roylance

Contains:    ???

See Also:    

References:   

   Gerald Roylance, "Some Scientific Subroutines in LISP", MIT AI Lab
   Memo 774, September 1984. [Documentation of the CLMath package.]



   M. Abramowitz and I. Stegun, editors, "Handbook of Mathematical
   Functions", National Bureau of Standards, 1964. [For Bessel,
   Beta, Gamma, elliptic, error, and extended functions. Also
   numerical integration, probability, and statistics.] 

   Philip R. Bevington, "Data Reduction and Error Analysis for the
   Physical Sciences", McGraw-Hill, New York, 1969. [For Fletcher
   Power functional minimization, Marquardt algorithm, and multiple
   linear regression.]

   Digital Equipment Corporation, "PDP-11 Paper Tape Software
   Programming Handbook", DEC-11-GGPA-D, Section 7.7. [For error and
   extended functions.]

   R. W. Hamming, "Numerical Methods for Scientist and Engineers",
   McGraw-Hill, 1973. [For various integration methods.]

   Cecil Hastings, Jr., "Approximations for Digital Computers",
   Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ, 1955. [For error and
   extended functions.]

   A. J. Kinderman & J. F. Monahan, "Computer Generation of Random
   Variables Using the Ratio of Uniform Deviates", ACM Transactions on
   Mathematical Software 3(3):257-260, September 1977. [For
   probability and statistics.] 

   D. Knuth, "The Art of Computer Programming", Addison Wesley, 1981.
   [For factoring, Totient, probability, and statistics.] 

   James Kuester and Joe Mize, "Optimization Techniques with
   Fortran", McGraw-Hill, New York, 1973. [For Fletcher Power
   functional minimization and Marquardt algorithm.] 

   David G. Luenberger, "Introduction to Linear and Nonlinear Programming",
   Addison Wesley, Reading, MA, 1965. [For matrix routines and Fletcher
   Power functional minimization.]

   Alan Oppenheim and Ronald Schafer, "Digital Signal Processing",
   Prentice Hall, 1975. [For DFT code.]

   William H. Press, Brian P. Flannery, Saul A. Teukolsky and William T.
   Vetterling, "Numerical Recipes in C, The Art of Scientific Computing",
   Cambridge University Press, 1988. [Page 178, for Beta and Gamma
   functions and combinatorial algorithms.]

   R. L. Rivest, A. Shamir, and L Adleman, "A Method for Obtaining
   Digital Signatures and Public-Key Cryptosystems", CACM 21(2):120-126,
   February 1978. [For modular arithmetic.]

   Robert Solovay and Volker Strassen, "A Fast Monte-Carlo Test for Primality",
   SIAM Journal on Computing, 1977, pp 84-85. [For modular arithmetic.]

